Example for dvc add --to-remote (#2172)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/add.md

   for more details.)
3. Attempt to replace the file with a link to the cached data (more details on
   file linking further down). Skipped if `--to-remote` is used.

> 4. Create a corresponding `.dvc` file to track the file, using its path (when
>    used with `--to-remote`/`-o`, the external path becomes a local path) and
>    hash to identify the cached data. The `.dvc` file lists the DVC-tracked file
>    as an <abbr>output</abbr> (`outs` field). Unless the `--file` option is used,
>    the `.dvc` file name generated by default is `<file>.dvc`, where `<file>` is
>    the file name of the first target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a corresponding `.dvc` file to track the file, using its path (when
   used with `--to-remote`/`-o`, the external path becomes a local path) and
   hash to identify the cached data. The `.dvc` file lists the DVC-tracked file
   as an <abbr>output</abbr> (`outs` field). Unless the `--file` option is used,
   the `.dvc` file name generated by default is `<file>.dvc`, where `<file>` is
   the file name of the first target.
```

one). A `.dvc` file will be created normally, but the data won't be found in
your local project until you `dvc pull` it.

(ℹ️) See the [Transfer to remote storage](#example-transfer-to-remote-storage)

> below.

Reviewer: Should we remove the **Transferring data directly to remote storage** section since just one paragraph is left in it? And maybe make the sentence with the link to the example part of that paragraph.

Reviewer: I'd even try to summarize that previous paragraph a little bit... Suggestion:

```md
Note that `dvc add` supports `targets` external to the <abbr>workspace</abbr>
(see `--external`), but often external data is too large to be
<abbr>cached</abbr> locally. To track the data without downloading it, you can
use the `--to-remote` option, which will transfer a copy directly to
[remote storage](/doc/command-reference/remote). The data won't be found in your
local project until you `dvc pull` it. See the
[Transfer to remote storage](#example-transfer-to-remote-storage) below.
```

Reviewer: But TBH I'm not sure we want to have this paragraph at all since the `add` Description is already so long. It's already mentioned a bit earlier (shown below) and the `--to-remote` will link to the Example, where it's all explained. Idk. WDYT @shcheklein ?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1477535/107550515-c045d300-6b96-11eb-96ba-ec601e8db942.png)

Reviewer: > p.s. that earlier "remote storage" text probably should link to /doc/command-reference/remote though 🙂

Reviewer: On this I guess the shorter the better so I vote to scratch the entire new paragraph and instead just mention in step 4. that the .dvc file created with --to-remote changes the external path to a local path.

Only the hash values of the `dir/` directory (with `.dir` file extension) and
`file2` have been cached.

## Example: Transfer to remote storage

When you have a large dataset in an external location, you may want to track it
as if it was in your project, but without downloading it locally (for now). The
`--to-remote` option lets you do so, while storing a copy
[remotely](/doc/command-reference/remote) so it can be

> [pulled](/doc/command-reference/plots) later. Let's initialize a DVC project,

Reviewer: We're still explaining this almost exactly as in https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/import-url#example-transfer-to-remote-storage but they're supposed to be completely different use cases. Is "you may want to track it as if it was in your project" clear and different enough?

How should we best differentiate them based on the discussions in #5445? Cc @shcheklein

Author: Perhaps we can defer this discussion. I am awaiting this PR to be merged so that I can work on to-cache docs.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I would write a better intro in general here:

By default when you do `import-url` DVC downloads data into the workspace so that it can be saved into cache, and later into the remote storage. That's important to preserve it since we want to keep the project reproducible. In some situations though you might not have enough space on the machine you are running `import-url`, but you still want this data to be saved into remote storage, you still want this data be accessible through regular commands like `dvc pull` (e.g. to run the pipeline on another machine that has enough space in cache, or when a large shared cache is being used, etc). In those cases, to "bootstrap" the project it's handy to use `--to-remote` ....

@jorgeorpinel we can take it over and rewrite it a bit, but let's not block @isidentical , and if we do this let's try to do this asap please or even as a separate PR

Reviewer: > defer this discussion. I am awaiting this PR to be merged
> let's not block @isidentical

I approved the PR along with my comment.

Reviewer: > let's try to do this asap please or even as a separate PR

Is it possible to review #2182? I have lots of other stashed changes on that branch and this will get added to that waitlist for now. Thanks

Reviewer 2: @jorgeorpinel I guess you din't request a review from anyone for the #2182 :)

Reviewer: p.s. Also added checkbox to #2121 for now (will come back to that one)

Reviewer: > din't request a review

True! Usually they get reviewed without me asking haha but now that the team is growing I should be more explicit. Also per https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2154#issuecomment-778440192 I've been avoiding pushing non-2.0 docs.

Reviewer: p.s. guys I finally got to rewriting these examples a bit in #2302. Feel free to check it out.

Only the hash values of the `dir/` directory (with `.dir` file extension) and
`file2` have been cached.

# Example: Transfer to remote storage

When you want to include a remote location (like some file in a s3 bucket, or a

> Google Drive directory) to your project, but don't want DVC to control the given

Reviewer 2: `but don't want DVC to control the given` it's a bit confusing to me- we do want to control this data, may be not location itself indeed.

@isidentical you had some good explanation in the `Transferring data directly to remote storage` - I would just move it here if we got with an example here. It will make both `import-url` and `add` consistent:

- long explanations go into examples
- short notice with a link where it is appropriate in the Description

Author: I've moved the section as is from import-url, and just polished it for add. Though not sure `let your skip download` part makes sense now or not since that wasn't the previous behavior

Reviewer: Good idea copying from `import-url` which we already reviewed and just adapt for add. I thin that "skip download" makes sense but we should just emphasize that we mean skip downloading (or copying) **to the local cache**. I'll leave some copy edits separately...

remote location rather just sync the data into your remote storage,
`--to-remote` option can be used.

```dvc
$ mkdir example # workspace
$ cd example
$ git init
$ dvc init
$ mkdir /tmp/dvc-storage
$ dvc remote add myremote /tmp/dvc-storage
```

Now let's add the `data.xml` to our remote storage, and create a `.dvc` file.

```dvc
$ dvc add https://data.dvc.org/get-started/data.xml --to-remote \
          -r myremote
```

> The only change in our local <abbr>workspace</abbr> is a newly created `.dvc`

Reviewer 2: I would emphasize it a bit differently:

It behave the same way as a regular `dvc add` and create a `.dvc` file:

The only difference that dataset is transferred straight to remote, thus you don't need to ....

Only the hash values of the `dir/` directory (with `.dir` file extension) and
`file2` have been cached.

## Example: Transfer to remote storage

> When you have a large dataset in an external location, you may want to add it to
> your project without downloading it to the local file system (for using it
> later/elsewhere). The `--to-remote` option let you skip the download, while
> storing the imported data [remotely](/doc/command-reference/remote). Let's
> initialize a DVC project, and setup a remote:

Reviewer: Here's that example intro copy edit I promised 🙂 

```suggestion
When you have a large dataset in an external location, you may want to track it
in your project without copying (downloading) it to the local <abbr>cache</abbr>
(for now). The `--to-remote` option let you skip the download, while storing the
added data [remotely](/doc/command-reference/remote). Let's initialize a DVC
project, and setup a remote:
```

Reviewer: WAIT... I'm confuse here actually... Yeah, what download are we talking about @isidentical? Isn't `add --to-remote` a form of `add --external`? Meaning that an external cache needs to be setup in the external location first.

If so, this would just skip the caching of the data, and instead upload it to some remote. But I thought external data can't be pushed to remote storage. Yeah I'm very confused now 😕 please re-explain once more...

Because otherwise what's the difference between `import-url --to-remote` and `add --to-remote`? If it's just that the data source isn't saved in the .dvc file I'd go back to questioning the need for this option in `add`.

Reviewer: > If it's just that the data source isn't saved in the .dvc file

That would mean that `add --to-remote` would have the same result as `dvc get-url` + `dvc add` + `dvc push` + `dvc remove` and `dvc gc`. Is that the use case?

If so I def. think that `import-url --to-remote` is always a better option, and way less confusing 🙂

Author: >  Is that the use case?

exactly! I don't get `--external` thing it does the exact steps you gave as an example

Author: > Because otherwise what's the difference between import-url --to-remote and add --to-remote? If it's just that the data source isn't saved in the .dvc file I'd go back to questioning the need for this option in add.

Yes, that is the only difference.

Reviewer: OK thanks @isidentical I'll modify my copy edits accordingly for now but I'll also open a core issue about this so you may want to wait a little bit before addressing any more of this PR 🙂

Reviewer: OK so we can apply my suggestion on this one, it seems. I'll do so (which will resolve this review).

```dvc
$ mkdir example # workspace
$ cd example
$ git init
$ dvc init
$ mkdir /tmp/dvc-storage
$ dvc remote add myremote /tmp/dvc-storage
```

Now let's add the `data.xml` to our remote storage from the given remote
location.

```dvc
$ dvc add https://data.dvc.org/get-started/data.xml -o data.xml \
                 --to-remote -r myremote
...
```

> The only difference that dataset is transferred straight to remote, so DVC won't
> control the remote location you gave but rather continue managing your remote
> storage where the data is now on. The operation will still be resulted with an
> `.dvc` file:

Reviewer: Possible copy edit here (please don't commit yet)... But I need to make sure I understand `add --to-remote` (see https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2172#discussion_r573963049) before finalizing this:

```suggestion
The difference with regular `dvc add` is that, while a `.dvc` file is created,
the data isn't cached. Instead, it's transferred directly to remote storage (as
ig pre-[pushing](/doc/command-reference/push) it).
```

Reviewer: OK I updated all my copy edits now (per https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2172#discussion_r573978325) 👍

Author: Hey @jorgeorpinel, do you need any more updates on the copy-edits after our discussion in the issue?

Reviewer: Thanks for the reminder @isidentical please feel free to address the feedback now and then we'll have to make one last review keeping in mind that long discussion we had — hopefully just copy edits that I can commit myself and then approve.

Reviewer: > feel free to address the pending feedback

Specifically 2 things are left: https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2172#discussion_r578699447 and https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2172#issuecomment-776898393 above.
